.Dd December 09, 2018
.Dt APPSLUGGR 1 URM


.Sh NAME
.Nm appsluggr
.Nd appsluggr packages a precompiled binary application as a Heroku style slug for use with Dokku.


.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm

.Op Fl fname
.Op Fl license
.Op Fl web
.Op Fl web-scale
.Op Fl worker
.Op Fl worker-scale


.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a small tool to package
.Li GOOS=linux GOARCH=amd64
binaries for consumption on
.Li hyperlink: http://dokku.viewdocs.io/dokku/ Dokku
.

.Bl -tag -width " " -offset indent -compact

.It Fl fname
The filename to write the resulting slug to.

The default value for this is
.Li slug.tar.gz
.

.It Fl license
If set, the tool will show its software license details and then exit.

.It Fl web
The path to the binary for the web process.

One of
.Fl web
or
.Fl worker
must be set.

.It Fl web-scale
The default scale for web process if defined.

The default value for this is 1.

.It Fl worker
The path to the binary for the worker process.
One of
.Fl web
or
.Fl worker
must be set.

.It Fl worker-scale
The default scale for the worker process if defined.

The default value for this is 1

.El


.Sh EXAMPLES

.Li appsluggr

.Li appsluggr -web web

.Li appsluggr -worker ilo-sona

.Li appsluggr -fname foo.tar.gz -web web -worker worker -web-scale 4 -worker-scale 16


.Sh IMPLEMENTATION NOTES

.Nm
when used with
.Lk hyperlink: http://dokku.viewdocs.io/dokku/ Dokku
requires the use of the
.Lk hyperlink: https://github.com/ryandotsmith/null-buildpack Null Buildpack
as follows:

.Li $ dokku config:set $APP_NAME BUILDPACK_URL=https://github.com/ryandotsmith/null-buildpack

Or

.Li $ ssh dokku@host config:set <see above>


.Sh DIAGNOSTICS

.Ex -std appsluggr


.Sh SEE ALSO

.Bl -bullet

.It
.Lk hyperlink: http://dokku.viewdocs.io/dokku/ Dokku

.It
.Lk hyperlink: https://github.com/ryandotsmith/null-buildpack Null Buildpack

.El
